Welcome back a student in this section here I'm going to show you how to build a functionality that
is going to keep track of how many users your current CMS has on line.
At one point of time.
So let me show you exactly what we're going to be doing.
So let's go to admin real quick and I'm sure you right now you see here on this link right here it says
user users on line 1.
All right.
So keep keep a really close eye on this.
Right.
I'm going to show you I'm going to open another tab somewhere in the admin and now I'm going to refresh
here.
Actually it made me look really bad.
And that's just because I have the same browser.
But I need to go to another browser.
Sorry about that.
Let's go to another browser.
Let's go to crawl of Firefox.
I'm going to refresh my Firefox right here and I'm going to refresh here and you can see now that it
says users too.
So now I'm going to go to another browser Let's go to safari Safari right here.
Open the same page I'm going to refresh.
And now if I come here and refresh.
You can see that I've got use history.
Now I'm going to actually turn my close this window.
All right.
So now after a couple of seconds this is actually going to stay users too.
All right so we're going to keep track of how many seconds these users have been on you know logged
down into this page right here and depending on those seconds we're going to say you know what these
users are not online anymore.
And every time they come back we can say OK he's on line.
All right so that's what we're going to be building.
Let me see.
Let me refresh now.
Still counting.
All right.
So anyway that's going to be a function I think for that we need to go to our BHB admin and build a
table for it.
All right.
So let's go ahead and do that right now.
We're going to be our table is going to be called users on line.
Let me refresh your IT AGAIN see what happened.
All right.
There you see now these users on line street too.
That's because we closed that window.
So let's go to our CMOS to BHP oddment and build a table.
All right.
So let me just bring my window here let's build a table called the users own line and we're going to
have three fields here.
First field is going to be the ID of course and this functionality can be extended to you know even
look at the first time the user ever logged then and the last time and things like that.
All right but we're going to just we're just going to build this functionality so you can get an idea
how this works.
So let's go to a primary here in autoincrement of course we want to have an idea that incremental automatically
so we can keep track and then we're going to have a session field in a time field.
So let's do our car for session and time to do 11.
I think we're good here 55 session 11 var coring it.
Okay we're good to go.
All right.
So now that we have this now we need to start building the cold BHB functionality so in the next lecture
we're going to start building that.
Thank you and I see you in the next lecture